So for the rest of this then, Let's
say that these are our intro styles, so
these are going to be styles specific
to this intro section of text for
the rest of this.
And I'm gonna start with
generically on my intro itself,
maybe we'll put some padding
on the bottom of 10 rem.
You won't actually see
anything happen here but
it will show up when we start to
assemble this into a full web page.
This will give us some nice space in
between the end of this introduction and
before we go into the next
section of the page.
We're gonna also add some other styles.
So again, for
the paragraphs here inside of our intro,
we may want the font size to
actually be just a touch smaller.
We set it to 1.3 rem on
the body of the document, but
here we want it to be slightly smaller,
so I'm gonna say it's 1 rem.
That will make all of that
text just a tiny little
bit smaller, and our line height is 1.5.
Okay, now, some of you may look that and
go, 1.5 what?
So this is one of the big mistakes that
a lot of people make with line height, and
that is that they add some sort of
unit of measure along with this.
When you add a unit of
measure to line height,
you've now set line height to
be an absolute unit of measure.
So if I said for example 1.5 rem,
you won't see any necessarily any
visual distinction here with
my particular website, but
if I blew the text up a little bit more,
that line height would be unchanging.
When you take the unit of measure off
of line height, it's now a proportion.
So what I've said here is 1.5 times
whatever my font size happens to be.
So if I blow my text up in the browser,
again, an accessibility to type
of thing because I need to have a larger
font size to be able to read this page,
then the line height will
blow up proportionately.
If you don't do that, you'll end up with
a text that overlaps on top of itself,
when you blow up your fonts
inside of the web browser,
maybe you've seen that in action before,
okay?
So when working with line height,
remember it's a proportion and
leave off the units of measure.
Okay, so let's focus on the name
portion of this now up here on the top.
And once again, if we take a look
at what we're trying to build here,
hi, my name is, is clearly not that
Oxygen Sans Serif font that we've
been working with, so let's change that.
And to do that, I need to select
this particular paragraph here.
And I could do that with
something like first child, or
I could just add a class to this.
So I am gonna add a class
to this called name and
I'm gonna put that on
the paragraph itself.
So here in my HTML on line 3, my
paragraph is now p with a class of name.
And then down here in my CSS,
I can say intro .name,
and change my font family,
so font-family: var (--mono).
So there's that, hi, my name is, but
of course, Jen Kramer is not quite right.
All right, now I need to target
just the name portion of this,
that span tag that I have here.
So let's write a class for that as well.
So this will be name space span,
I don't need to create another class for
this, span is a perfectly good HTML tag.
Normally, it has a class associated
with it, but because I put the class on
the paragraph, and I only have
one span element inside of this,
I could write a style just like this.
If you feel more comfortable
adding a class to the span tag,
you could do that too.
All right, so here we'll say font-family,
we'll have to reset it again,
var(--sans), okay?
And then we need a font size for
rem, right?
Make it nice and big.
And then we want the color, Aqua.
Now here comes the fun part,
how do we get it on its own line?
Do we have any suggestions?
How would I get this font its own line?
What is span by default?
Is it block or is it in line?
>> In line.
>> In line, right?
So if something is in line, it is in line,
it is part of that whole paragraph.
If we wanted it on its own line,
it should be what?
Probably a block, yeah.
So to this, we can simply say,
display : block.
There, now it's on its own line.
And finally,
the last thing that I wanna do is this,
intro h2 font-size: 4rem.
There we go, I teach the web,
nice and big, but of course,
you could always mess around with that
if you wanted to say something like,
font-weight: normal.
Since this is coming from a Google Font,
it tends to display the weight that we had
for the Google Font, which I think we use
the 400 weight or 300 weight Oxygen font.
So it looks the way it looks.
I think that went down just a tiny
little bit in terms of boldness but
you can mess around with the font weight
to make it look the way you want.
So there we go, we have constructed
our first part of this webpage.
What we did was we took just
that little bit of text,
we dropped it into a code pen.
And then we worried about styling that
all by itself in its own little universe,
and we wound up with this
particular look to the web page.
Not too awful, right?
A nice way to look at this and break
the problem down into smaller pieces.